# CAE

The Code for the magnetic field due to Arbitrary Electromagnets (CAE) is a feature-rich a code to simulate the magnetic fields generated by arbitrary electromagnetic systems. The code calculates the magnetic field due to straight and circular segments of zero thickness or rectangular cross section and cylindrical wire. The magnetic field calculations use a combination of analytical and numerical integration methods based on the Biot–Savart law. The design philosophy of CAE is to reduce the complexities while generating the inputs, and provide the visuals of the given inputs as 3-D plots of the electromagnets and magnetic field components as outputs in the Excel format.

More details about this code are discussed in the following research paper: 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/335468201_CAE_v11--A_Code_for_the_Magnetic_Field_Due_to_Arbitrary_Electromagnets

## Prerequisites

CAE code is written in Python and C++ programming languages.

### Python requirement

- Python 3 is required.
- Required python libraries: numpy, pandas, scipy, matplotlib, xlsxwriter, xlrd (version 1.2.0).

- Ubuntu users can install these libraries by running the following commands in terminal:
  - pip3 install numpy
  - pip3 install pandas
  - pip3 install tqdm
  - pip3 install xlrd==1.2.0
  - pip3 install scipy
  - pip3 install matplotlib
  - pip3 install xlsxwriter
- Windows users can install these libraries via Command Prompt by replacing `pip3` with `pip`.

### C++ requirement

- For preprocessing, compilation, assembly and linking of C++ source code to generate an executable file, `g++` is used. g++ version 9.3.0 or higher is required to execute the CAE.cpp file.
- In Ubuntu g++ is preinstalled. Users can check its version by typing `g++ --version` in the terminal.
- Windows users can follow the procedure explained in the following video by LearningLad: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0HD0pqVtsmw

## CAEB

In most of the electromagnetic systems, the coils are arranged in a symmetric manner, for example, Tokamak. The CAEB — CAE Builder code takes advantage of the symmetry and minimizes the complexities of generating the input Excel files for the coils. The CAEB takes inputs for one coil and number of coils in a system, and generates an output file, Builder.xlsx with the data of all the coils.
